+++
title = "Ad-free: Building an audio ad-blocker for Android"
date = "2022-08-17"
description = ""
draft = true

tags = [
    "android",
    "engineering"
]
+++

This post will cover some of the insights I've gotten while building ad-free, a
modularized audio ad-blocker for Android I started in 2016. Ad-free is a
proof-of-concept application to show limitations in the way how audio
advertisement is implemented on Android. It features a small Kotlin
application with a plugin-based design and a simplistic user interface.
<!--more-->

---

## Introduction
The Android OS provides powerful mechanisms to intercept and monitor events on
the system. A notification listener service is an application that can monitor
calls from the operating system when new notifications are posted or removed.
Other services such as Accessibility services monitor and enhance
user-interaction to support impaired users to interact with the device. These
services typically expose much information about the current user activity on
the device.

With a proof-of-concept application, I aim to evaluate the expressivity of some
of these mechanisms in the domain of audio advertisement in popular music players on
Android.

## The Application

### Notification Listener Service

### Everything is a Plugin



Xerum, quo qui aut unt expliquam qui dolut labo. Aque venitatiusda cum, voluptionse latur sitiae dolessi aut parist aut dollo enim qui voluptate ma dolestendit peritin re plis aut quas inctum laceat est volestemque commosa as cus endigna tectur, offic to cor sequas etum rerum idem sintibus eiur? Quianimin porecus evelectur, cum que nis nust voloribus ratem aut omnimi, sitatur? Quiatem. Nam, omnis sum am facea corem alique molestrunt et eos evelece arcillit ut aut eos eos nus, sin conecerem erum fuga. Ri oditatquam, ad quibus unda veliamenimin cusam et facea ipsamus es exerum sitate dolores editium rerore eost, temped molorro ratiae volorro te reribus dolorer sperchicium faceata tiustia prat.

Itatur? Quiatae cullecum rem ent aut odis in re eossequodi nonsequ idebis ne sapicia is sinveli squiatum, core et que aut hariosam ex eat.

## Blockquotes

The blockquote element represents content that is quoted from another source, optionally with a citation which must be within a `footer` or `cite` element, and optionally with in-line changes such as annotations and abbreviations.

#### Blockquote without attribution

> Tiam, ad mint andaepu dandae nostion secatur sequo quae.
> **Note** that you can use *Markdown syntax* within a blockquote.

#### Blockquote with attribution

> Don't communicate by sharing memory, share memory by communicating.<br>
> — <cite>Rob Pike[^1]</cite>

[^1]: The above quote is excerpted from Rob Pike's [talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PAAkCSZUG1c) during Gopherfest, November 18, 2015.

## Tables

Tables aren't part of the core Markdown spec, but Hugo supports supports them out-of-the-box.

   Name | Age
--------|------
    Bob | 27
  Alice | 23

#### Inline Markdown within tables

| Italics   | Bold     | Code   |
| --------  | -------- | ------ |
| *italics* | **bold** | `code` |

## Code Blocks

#### Code block with backticks

```html
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <title>Example HTML5 Document</title>
</head>
<body>
  <p>Test</p>
</body>
</html>
```

#### Code block indented with four spaces

    <!doctype html>
    <html lang="en">
    <head>
      <meta charset="utf-8">
      <title>Example HTML5 Document</title>
    </head>
    <body>
      <p>Test</p>
    </body>
    </html>

#### Code block with Hugo's internal highlight shortcode
{{< highlight html >}}
<!doctype html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
  <title>Example HTML5 Document</title>
</head>
<body>
  <p>Test</p>
</body>
</html>
{{< /highlight >}}

## List Types

#### Ordered List

1. First item
2. Second item
3. Third item

#### Unordered List

* List item
* Another item
* And another item

#### Nested list

* Fruit
  * Apple
  * Orange
  * Banana
* Dairy
  * Milk
  * Cheese

## Other Elements — abbr, sub, sup, kbd, mark

<abbr title="Graphics Interchange Format">GIF</abbr> is a bitmap image format.

H<sub>2</sub>O

X<sup>n</sup> + Y<sup>n</sup> = Z<sup>n</sup>

Press <kbd><kbd>CTRL</kbd>+<kbd>ALT</kbd>+<kbd>Delete</kbd></kbd> to end the session.

Most <mark>salamanders</mark> are nocturnal, and hunt for insects, worms, and other small creatures.
